      In the Kindergarten Teacher, genius is understood as a novelty. Lisa’s definition of genius is exaggerated and the other characters in the film emphasize this, as they are dismissive of Lisa’s notions, which makes her definition of genius distinguishable from the film’s sense of the term. 
       Lisa’s interest in her kindergarten student, Jimmy depicts her idea of genius. As she first explains her encounter with his poems to her husband, she recalls her own children saying that, “Lany and Josh knew lots of words at that age but it conjures a feeling so specific…” This shows that intellect does not stem from quantity of information but from the quality of articulation with that information. This same idea of genius is further emphasized when Lisa’s poetry teacher states, “with so few elements you make something very complex”, in response to her reading of Jimmy’s poem. The fact that it is recognizable to various characters in the film that Jimmy’s work does possess a sense of distinction shows that this is the films attempt to establish the standard definition of genius as a novelty, and something that is rare and special. Lisa’s definition of genius encompasses the film’s definition of genius; however, she takes it one-step farther. 
      Lisa becomes fixated on Jimmy’s “genius” in a way that is not understood by any of the other characters in the film. Lisa’s insecurities start to peer through her fixation on Jimmy the more obsessed she becomes. When Jimmy used the word “hoe”, Lisa reprimands him and harshly says “it’s a word boring kids say”, implying that Jimmy does not fall into this category. As Lisa continues to cling onto Jimmy’s “genius”, she attempts to force others to see Jimmy’s “genius” in the way that she does. Jimmy’s nanny describes his poetic moments as “zombie like and weird”, which allude to some of Lisa’s fears with Jimmy’s talent. Lisa sees genius as misunderstood in today’s culture, shown through her bold statements such as, “I want to support it and I want to protect it.” She further says that this world “doesn’t support art or language or observation” which suggests that these are dying forms of genius in the modern age that she is grasping onto and trying to recover. 
      Another differing aspect between Lisa’s definition of genius and the definition in the presence of the film is that Lisa’s idea of genius dates back to classical times and historical ground as she constantly refers to prodigies such as Mozart. Her definition of genius does not coincide with the times that they live in which Lisa also struggles with throughout the film as she disapproves of her children’s use of technology. This further shows Lisa’s mentality as stated above that genius such as Jimmy’s is becoming extinct as times become more modern. 
      A final moment that distinguishes the definition of genius from Lisa’s perspective and that of the film is when her poetry teacher says to her, “you’re not an artist, you are an art appreciator…a dilatant.” Lisa loves and appreciates art so much that she aspires to be at the heart of it by creating it but she does not possess the talent to do so which is why she holds Jimmy’s talent so near to her. Lisa also says that she “doesn’t want him to be erased like her.” This shows a disappointment and lack of fulfillment in her own existence. It further implies the novelty aspect of genius, which is the simple fact that it is natural, and you have to be born with it. 

